TERRY CONNELLY 410 PRESSWOOD DR SPRING TX 773861207  

July 08, 2024  

INSURED:  TERRY CONNELLY DATE OF LOSS:  July 08, 2024 CLAIM NUMBER:  0761226547 NCC  

PHONE NUMBER:  800-547-8676  
FAX NUMBER:  877-292-9527  

Claim Acknowledgement Letter  

Dear TERRY CONNELLY,  

We are writing to let you know that we received your claim and started working on it. Losses are always difficult, but please be assured that we will work to resolve your claim quickly and fairly.  

We wanted to let you know that we will need your help to accurately estimate your damages which includes your input on the age and condition of the items before they were damaged. The options for condition are “new”, “above average”, “average”, and “below average”. Information about age and condition is used, in part, to determine the amount of any depreciation that may be applicable. “Depreciation” refers to a decrease in an item’s value due to age and condition and other factors. We look forward to discussing these details with you as well as whether your policy provides the replacement cost coverage option.  

We have a dedicated team of claim professionals that can assist you during the claim process. Just so you are aware, one or more Allstate Vehicle and Property Insurance Company representatives may contact you about different aspects of your claim.  

We're here to help. If you need additional information, please visit MyClaim.com or contact us.  

Sincerely,  

# Your Claim Team  

Your Claim Team   
800-547-8676   
Allstate Vehicle and Property Insurance Company  