Anne Champagne 1908 W 25th St Houston, TX 77008  

YOUR CLAIM PROFESSIONAL  

BRANDON HUNT bhunt2@travelers.com Call (346) 406-7221  

Claim number: I8C6659  

# !  

September 24, 2024  

Date of loss: August 13, 2024  

Dear Anne Champagne,  

# We’re still looking into whether your claim is covered by your policy  

We’re following up on our recent email. You reported that your dwelling was damaged by the ac condensation line overflow on August 13, 2024. We’re continuing to look into the facts of your claim to determine whether coverage is provided by your policy for this loss.  

Loss location: 1908 W 25TH ST HOUSTON TX 77008  

While we research the claim and coverage, TRAVELERS PERSONAL INSURANCE COMPANY reserves its rights under the policy and law, including the right to deny all or part of your claim that is not covered. We’ve included the relevant policy wording, which begins on the next page(s).  

Insured name:  

Policy number: Underwriting Company:  

ANNE   
CHAMPAGNE   
615843239-633-1   
TRAVELERS   
PERSONAL   
INSURANCE   
COMPANY  

# Please review your policy  

Refer to page(s) 14 of your HQ-P03, which states:  

PROPERTY- CONDITIONS  

2.Duties After Loss.Incase of a loss to covered property, we have no duty to provide coverage under this policy if the following duties are not performed. These duties must be performed either by you, an “insured" seeking coverage or a representative of either.  

a. Give us prompt notice. With respect to a loss caused by the peril of windstorm or hail, that notice must occur no later than one year after the date of loss;  

b. Notify the police in case of loss by theft;  

C Notify the credit card or electronic fund transfer card or access device company in case of loss as provided for in Property - Additional Coverage　 7. Credit 　 Card, Electronic Fund Transfer Card or Access Device, Forgery and Counterfeit Money;  

d. Protect the property from further damage. If repairs to the property are required, you must:  

(1) Make reasonable and necessary repairs to protect the property; and  

(2) Keep an accuraterecordof repair expenses;  

e Cooperate with us in the investigation of a claim;  

f. Prepare an inventory of damaged personal property showing the quantity, description, value and amount of loss. Attach all bills, receipts and related documents that justify the figures in the inventory;  

g. As often as we reasonably require:  

(1) Show the damaged property;   
(2) Provide us with records and documents werequestandpermitustomake copies; and  

(3) Submit to examination under oath, while not in the presence of another “insured", and sign the same; and . Send to us, within 60 days after our request, your signed, sworn proof of loss which sets forth, to the best of your knowledge and belief: (1) The time and cause of loss; (2) The interest of all “insureds" and all others in the property involved and all liens on the property; (3) Other insurance which may cover the loss; (4）Changes intitle or occupancyof the property during the term of the policy; (5) Specifications of damaged buildings and detailed repair estimates; (6) The inventory of damagedpersonal property described in 2.f.; (7) Receipts for additional living expenses incurred and records that support the fair rental value loss; and (8) Evidence or affidavit that supports a claim underProperty- Additional Coverage 7. Credit Card, Electronic Fund Transfer Card or Access Device, Forgery and Counterfeit Money, stating the amount and cause of loss.  

We’ll continue to research your claim under a full reservation of rights until coverage is determined. In the meantime, we’ll keep you updated on the status of your claim.  

# Other things you should know  

Your policy may have other terms, conditions and exclusions that apply to this claim. We do not waive any rights, including our right to deny coverage, for any other valid reason under the policy or law.  

# Questions?  

If you have any questions, please contact us.  