How can I review and correct the personal information you have about me?  

If you have questions about what personal information we maintain about you, please make your request in writing and include your full name, mailing address, phone number and policy number. When we receive your written request, we will respond within thirty (30) business days. We will describe the personal information we maintain, whom we know we’ve shared it with in the last two (2) years, and how you may request a correction, if necessary. If we requested a consumer report, we will tell you the name and address of the consumer reporting agency.   
You may also see and copy the information we have, except for certain documents about claims and lawsuits. If you believe our information is incorrect, let us know in writing. We will review it, and, if we agree, we will correct it, notify you, and send a correction letter to anyone who received the original information. If we do not agree, you are allowed to file a letter with your comments.   
For questions about the right of access or correction to your information, please write to: Travelers, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183, Attn: Privacy Office.  

Thank you for trusting us with your insurance. We are committed to providing you excellent service at a competitive price. A lot of information is used to determine your price, including information about your credit history(ies). We are required to tell you that based on the information we received, you did not receive our best rating classification. Your price is competitive and accurate based on your unique characteristics. Please refer to the reverse side of this page for the details from your credit history affecting your price.  

The consumer reporting agency(ies) that provided information about you:  

Insurance Score (Credit History) Information:   
TransUnion National Disclosure Center   
P.O. Box 1000   
Chester, PA 19022   
Telephone:  1.800.645.1938   
Web Address: www.transunion.com  

# Remember:  

You have the right to a free copy of the consumer report(s) listed above. Simply contact the agency(ies) listed above within 60 days of receipt of this notice. You have the right to dispute the accuracy or completeness of any information in a consumer report. Simply contact the agency to discuss or dispute any information in the report. ? The consumer reporting agency(ies) did not make the pricing determination and cannot answer questions regarding your Travelers policy. • Notify us if your information changes.  We will reevaluate your situation, which could save you money.  

The information from your credit report is used to create an insurance score. Your insurance score was impacted by:  

\* Number of open revolving accounts.   
\* Number of occurences of Bank Revolving accounts known revolving.   
\* Total Credit Limit change on revolving accounts.  

To learn more about how your credit relates to your insurance policy please contact our Insurance Score Resource Center at 1.800.550.7717. For any other questions, please contact your Travelers agent  or representative.  

Please note: this information does not necessarily reflect a poor or average credit standing.  

# Important Notice about Billing Options and Disclosures  

This notice contains important information about our billing options and charges.  

You have chosen to pay your insurance premium in full and will be billed by mail / email. Other charges that may apply include a $\pounds10.00$ late charge and a $\pounds15.00\$ fee for payments returned by your bank.  

To sign up for AutoPay or change your Bill Plan option, visit MyTravelers.com, Mobile App or contact your Travelers insurance representative or agent.  

# Bill Plan  

Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) Recurring Credit Card (RCC) Bill by Mail / Email  

Pay in Full No Charge No Charge No Charge  

Late Charge: $\pounds10.00$ per occurrence Payments returned by your bank: $\pounds15.00\$ per occurrence  

In the event two payments are returned during a 12 month period you will be required to pay with guaranteed funds for 182 days from the date of the last returned payment. Guaranteed funds are credit card, bank check, money order or home banking payments. Other forms of payment will be returned. You will not be eligible to use our Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) or Recurring Credit Card (RCC) payment plans.  

You have an option to enroll in an AutoPay EFT or RCC payment plan without registering for MyTravelers.com by visiting amp.travelers.com.  

When you provide a check as payment, you authorize us either to use information from your check to make a one-time electronic fund transfer from your account or to process the payment as a check transaction.  

If you have multiple policies with us you may be able to combine those policies into a single billing account. If you have selected one of our monthly billing options, and you combine your policies into a single billing account, you will be charged just one service charge per installment, and not per individual account.  

To add this policy to an existing billing account or if you have other questions about this notice, please call your insurance representative at 1-800-474-1377.  