Liberty Mutual Personal Insurance Company   
P.O. Box 5014   
Scranton, PA 18505-5014  

# CONTACT US  

ANTHONY DELABANO 205 RUSTIC RIDGE DR GARLAND, TX 75040-3551  

Michael.Madison@LibertyMutual.com  

Direct: (800) 225-2467   
Fax: 888-268-8840  

Liberty Mutual Personal Insurance   
Company   
P.O. Box 5014   
Scranton, PA 18505-5014   
800-225-2467  

LibertyMutual.com  

March 16, 2025  

Claim Number: 058850657-01   
Date of Incident: 02/20/2025   
Policy Number: H3V-291-409151-70   
Deductible: $\mathfrak{S}3$ ,138.00  

Dear ANTHONY DELABANO,  

I’m writing to follow up on your recent Liberty Mutual Homeowners policy claim and the results of our review.  

After our discussion, we determined that the amount of estimated covered damages totals $\mathbb{\Phi}4,357.69]$ . Unfortunately, this amount does not exceed your policy deductible of $\mathfrak{S}3$ ,138.00, which is a percentage of your Building and Dwelling at [313,800.00]. This is also reflected on the Declarations Page of your Home policy.  

This means that we will not provide any payment for the damage to your property.  

# Your Policy  

I know this can be disappointing news, so I want to make sure you fully understand the reason for this outcome. With that in mind, here is the section of your policy that pertains to this decision.  

# DEDUCTIBLE  

Unless otherwise noted in this policy, the following deductible provision applies:  

Subject to the policy limits that apply. we will pay only that part of the total of all loss payable under Section I that exceeds the deductible amount shown in the Declarations.  

# Next Steps  

After repairs are complete, if you’ve made any improvements to your home, or replaced the roofing shingles on your home, you’ll need to update your policy accordingly. For assistance, please contact your Sales Representative or call 800-225-7014.  

# We’re Here To Help  

If you have any questions or any additional information about your damages that may affect your claim, please feel free to call or email me at Michael.Madison@LibertyMutual.com, and I’ll be happy to help. When contacting me by email, please include your claim number in the subject line.  

Thank you for trusting Liberty Mutual with your insurance needs.  

Sincerely,  

MICHAEL MADISON Property Claims Department  